SECTION: library
TITLE: tkinter.messagebox— Tkinter message prompts
SOURCE: library\tkinter.messagebox.html
--------------------------------------------------

# tkinter.messagebox — Tkinter message prompts

tkinter.messagebox
Source code: Lib/tkinter/messagebox.py
The tkinter.messagebox module provides a template base class as well as
a variety of convenience methods for commonly used configurations. The message
boxes are modal and will return a subset of ( True , False , None , OK , CANCEL , YES , NO ) based on
the user’s selection. Common message box styles and layouts include but are not
limited to:
tkinter.messagebox
False
CANCEL
Create a message window with an application-specified message, an icon
and a set of buttons.
Each of the buttons in the message window is identified by a unique symbolic name (see the type options).
The following options are supported:
Specifies the function to invoke when the user closes the dialog.
The name of the button clicked by the user to close the dialog is
passed as argument.
This is only available on macOS.
Gives the symbolic name of the default button
for this message window ( OK , CANCEL , and so on).
If this option is not specified, the first button in the dialog will
be made the default.
CANCEL
Specifies an auxiliary message to the main message given by the message option.
The message detail will be presented beneath the main message and,
where supported by the OS, in a less emphasized font than the main
message.
Specifies an icon to display.
If this option is not specified, then the INFO icon will be
displayed.
Specifies the message to display in this message box.
The default value is an empty string.
Makes the specified window the logical parent of the message box.
The message box is displayed on top of its parent window.
Specifies a string to display as the title of the message box.
This option is ignored on macOS, where platform guidelines forbid
the use of a title on this kind of dialog.
Arranges for a predefined set of buttons to be displayed.
Display a message window and wait for the user to select one of the buttons. Then return the symbolic name of the selected button.
Keyword arguments can override options specified in the constructor.
Information message box
Creates and displays an information message box with the specified title
and message.
Warning message boxes
Creates and displays a warning message box with the specified title
and message.
Creates and displays an error message box with the specified title
and message.
Ask a question. By default shows buttons YES and NO .
Returns the symbolic name of the selected button.
Ask if operation should proceed. Shows buttons OK and CANCEL .
Returns True if the answer is ok and False otherwise.
CANCEL
False
Ask if operation should be retried. Shows buttons RETRY and CANCEL .
Return True if the answer is yes and False otherwise.
RETRY
CANCEL
False
Ask a question. Shows buttons YES and NO .
Returns True if the answer is yes and False otherwise.
False
Ask a question. Shows buttons YES , NO and CANCEL .
Return True if the answer is yes, None if cancelled, and False otherwise.
CANCEL
False
Symbolic names of buttons:
Predefined sets of buttons:
Displays three buttons whose symbolic names are ABORT , RETRY and IGNORE .
ABORT
RETRY
IGNORE
Displays one button whose symbolic name is OK .
Displays two buttons whose symbolic names are OK and CANCEL .
CANCEL
Displays two buttons whose symbolic names are RETRY and CANCEL .
RETRY
CANCEL
Displays two buttons whose symbolic names are YES and NO .
Displays three buttons whose symbolic names are YES , NO and CANCEL .
CANCEL
Icon images:
